Continuous random number generator test. If a cryptographic module employs Approved or non-
Approved RNGs in an Approved mode of operation, the module shall perform the following continuous
random number generator test on each RNG that tests for failure to a constant value.

1. If each call to a RNG produces blocks of n bits (where n > 15), the first n-bit block generated
   after power-up, initialization, or reset shall not be used, but shall be saved for comparison with
   the next n-bit block to be generated. Each subsequent generation of an n-bit block shall be
   compared with the previously generated block. The test shall fail if any two compared n-bit
   blocks are equal.

2. If each call to a RNG produces fewer than 16 bits, the first n bits generated after power-up,
   initialization, or reset (for some n > 15) shall not be used, but shall be saved for comparison with
   the next n generated bits. Each subsequent generation of n bits shall be compared with the
   previously generated n bits. The test fails if any two compared n-bit sequences are equal.

Bypass test. If a cryptographic module implements a bypass capability where the services may be
provided without cryptographic processing (e.g., transferring plaintext through the module), then the
following bypass tests shall be performed to ensure that a single point of failure of module components
will not result in the unintentional output of plaintext:

1. A cryptographic module shall test for the correct operation of the services providing
   cryptographic processing when a switch takes place between an exclusive bypass service and an
   exclusive cryptographic service.

2. If a cryptographic module can automatically alternate between a bypass service and a
   cryptographic service, providing some services with cryptographic processing and some services
   without cryptographic processing, then the module shall test for the correct operation of the
   services providing cryptographic processing when the mechanism governing the switching
   procedure is modified (e.g., an IP address source/destination table).

Documentation shall specify the mechanism or logic governing the switching procedure.

4.10    Design Assurance

Design assurance refers to the use of best practices by the vendor of a cryptographic module during the
design, deployment, and operation of a cryptographic module, providing assurance that the module is
properly tested, configured, delivered, installed, and developed, and that the proper operator guidance
documentation is provided. Security requirements are specified for configuration management, delivery
and operation, development, and guidance documents.

4.10.1    Configuration Management

Configuration management specifies the security requirements for a configuration management system
implemented by a cryptographic module vendor, providing assurance that the functional requirements and
specifications are realized in the implementation.

A configuration management system shall be implemented for a cryptographic module and module
components within the cryptographic boundary, and for associated module documentation. Each version of
each configuration item (e.g., cryptographic module, module components, user guidance, security policy,
and operating system) that comprises the module and associated documentation shall be assigned and
labeled with a unique identification number.
