Section 4.1). If the calculated result does not equal the previously generated result, the software/firmware test shall fail.

If an EDC is used, the EDC shall be at least 16 bits in length.

Critical functions test. Other security functions critical to the secure operation of a cryptographic module shall be tested when the module is powered up as part of the power-up tests. Other critical security functions performed under specific conditions shall be tested as conditional tests.

Documentation shall specify all security functions critical to the secure operation of a cryptographic module and shall identify the applicable power-up tests and conditional tests performed by the module.

4.9.2 Conditional Tests

Conditional tests shall be performed by a cryptographic module when the conditions specified for the following tests occur: pair-wise consistency test, software/firmware load test, manual key entry test, continuous random number generator test, and bypass test.

Pair-wise consistency test (for public and private keys). If a cryptographic module generates public or private keys, then the following pair-wise consistency tests for public and private keys shall be performed:

1. If the keys are used to perform an approved key transport method, then the public key shall encrypt a plaintext value. The resulting ciphertext value shall be compared to the original plaintext value. If the two values are equal, then the test shall fail. If the two values differ, then the private key shall be used to decrypt the ciphertext and the resulting value shall be compared to the original plaintext value. If the two values are not equal, the test shall fail.

2. If the keys are used to perform the calculation and verification of digital signatures, then the consistency of the keys shall be tested by the calculation and verification of a digital signature. If the digital signature cannot be verified, the test shall fail.

Software/firmware load test. If software or firmware components can be externally loaded into a cryptographic module, then the following software/firmware load tests shall be performed:

1. An Approved authentication technique (e.g., an Approved message authentication code, digital signature algorithm, or HMAC) shall be applied to all validated software and firmware components when the components are externally loaded into a cryptographic module. The software/firmware load test is not required for any software and firmware components excluded from the security requirements of this standard (refer to Section 4.1).

2. The calculated result shall be compared with a previously generated result. If the calculated result does not equal the previously generated result, the software/firmware load test shall fail.

Manual key entry test. If cryptographic keys or key components are manually entered into a cryptographic module, then the following manual key entry tests shall be performed:

1. The cryptographic key or key components shall have an EDC applied, or shall be entered using duplicate entries.

2. If an EDC is used, the EDC shall be at least 16 bits in length.

3. If the EDC cannot be verified, or the duplicate entries do not match, the test shall fail.

35
