• the cryptographic module shall be contained within a strong enclosure such that attempts at removal or penetration of the enclosure will have a high probability of causing serious damage to the module (i.e., the module will not function).

SECURITY LEVEL 4

In addition to the requirements for Security Levels 1, 2, and 3, the following requirements shall apply to multiple-chip standalone cryptographic modules for Security Level 4.

▪ The potting material or enclosure of the cryptographic module shall be encapsulated by a tamper detection envelope, by the use of tamper detection mechanisms such as cover switches (e.g., microswitches, magnetic Hall effect switches, permanent magnetic actuators, etc.), motion detectors (e.g., ultrasonic, infrared, or microwave), or other tamper detection mechanisms as described above for multiple-chip embedded cryptographic modules. The tamper detection mechanisms shall detect tampering by means such as cutting, drilling, milling, grinding, or dissolving of the potting material or enclosure, to an extent sufficient for accessing plaintext secret and private cryptographic keys and CSPs.

• The cryptographic module shall contain tamper response and zeroization circuitry that shall continuously monitor the tamper detection envelope and, upon the detection of tampering, shall immediately zeroize all plaintext secret and private cryptographic keys and CSPs. The tamper response and zeroization circuitry shall remain operational when plaintext cryptographic keys and CSPs are contained within the cryptographic module.

4.5.5 Environmental Failure Protection/Testing

The electronic devices and circuitry are designed to operate within a particular range of environmental conditions. Deliberate or accidental excursions outside the specified normal operating ranges of voltage and temperature can cause erratic operation or failure of the electronic devices or circuitry that can compromise the security of the cryptographic module. Reasonable assurance that the security of a cryptographic module cannot be compromised by extreme environmental conditions can be provided by having the module employ environmental failure protection (EFP) features or undergo environmental failure testing (EFT).

For Security Levels 1, 2, and 3, a cryptographic module is not required to employ environmental failure protection (EFP) features or undergo environmental failure testing (EFT). At Security Level 4, a cryptographic module shall either employ environmental failure protection (EFP) features or undergo environmental failure testing (EFT).

4.5.5.1 Environmental Failure Protection Features (Alternative 1)

Environmental failure protection (EFP) features shall protect a cryptographic module against unusual environmental conditions or fluctuations (accidental or induced) outside of the module's normal operating range that can compromise the security of the module. In particular, the cryptographic module shall monitor and correctly respond to fluctuations in the operating temperature and voltage outside of the specified normal operating ranges.

The EFP features shall involve electronic circuitry or devices that continuously measure the operating temperature and voltage of a cryptographic module. If the temperature or voltage fall outside of the cryptographic module's normal operating range, the protection circuitry shall either (1) shutdown the module to prevent further operation or (2) immediately zeroize all plaintext secret and private cryptographic keys and CSPs.

Documentation shall specify the normal operating ranges of a cryptographic module and the environmental failure protection features employed by the module.
