Security Level 3 allows the software and firmware components of a cryptographic module to be executed
on a general purpose computing system using an operating system that

• meets the functional requirements specified in the PPs listed in Annex B with the additional
  functional requirement of a Trusted Path (FTP_TRP.1) and

• is evaluated at the CC evaluation assurance level EAL3 (or higher) with the additional assurance
  requirement of an Informal Target of Evaluation (TOE) Security Policy Model (ADV_SPM.1).

An equivalent evaluated trusted operating system may be used. The implementation of a trusted path
protects plaintext CSPs and the software and firmware components of the cryptographic module from other
untrusted software or firmware that may be executing on the system.

1.4　　Security Level 4

Security Level 4 provides the highest level of security defined in this standard. At this security level, the
physical security mechanisms provide a complete envelope of protection around the cryptographic module
with the intent of detecting and responding to all unauthorized attempts at physical access. Penetration of
the cryptographic module enclosure from any direction has a very high probability of being detected,
resulting in the immediate zeroization of all plaintext CSPs. Security Level 4 cryptographic modules are
useful for operation in physically unprotected environments.

Security Level 4 also protects a cryptographic module against a security compromise due to environmental
conditions or fluctuations outside of the module's normal operating ranges for voltage and temperature.
Intentional excursions beyond the normal operating ranges may be used by an attacker to thwart a
cryptographic module's defenses. A cryptographic module is required to either include special
environmental protection features designed to detect fluctuations and zeroize CSPs, or to undergo rigorous
environmental failure testing to provide a reasonable assurance that the module will not be affected by
fluctuations outside of the normal operating range in a manner that can compromise the security of the
module.

Security Level 4 allows the software and firmware components of a cryptographic module to be executed
on a general purpose computing system using an operating system that

• meets the functional requirements specified for Security Level 3 and

• is evaluated at the CC evaluation assurance level EAL4 (or higher).

An equivalent evaluated trusted operating system may be used.
