provided or maintained internally to the cryptographic boundary of the cryptographic module (e.g., an internal battery).

The cryptographic module shall distinguish between data and control for input and data and status for output. All input data entering the cryptographic module via the "data input" interface shall only pass through the input data path. All output data exiting the cryptographic module via the "data output" interface shall only pass through the output data path. The output data path shall be logically disconnected from the circuitry and processes while performing key generation, manual key entry, or key zeroization. To prevent the inadvertent output of sensitive information, two independent internal actions shall be required to output data via any output interface through which plaintext cryptographic keys or CSPs or sensitive data are output (e.g., two different software flags are set, one of which may be user initiated; or two hardware gates are set serially from two separate actions).

SECURITY LEVELS 1 AND 2

For Security Levels 1 and 2, the physical port(s) and logical interface(s) used for the input and output of plaintext cryptographic keys, cryptographic key components, authentication data, and CSPs may be shared physically and logically with other ports and interfaces of the cryptographic module.

SECURITY LEVELS 3 AND 4

For Security Levels 3 and 4,

• the physical port(s) used for the input and output of plaintext cryptographic key components, authentication data, and CSPs shall be physically separated from all other ports of the cryptographic module

or

• the logical interfaces used for the input and output of plaintext cryptographic key components, authentication data, and CSPs shall be logically separated from all other interfaces using a trusted path,

and

• plaintext cryptographic key components, authentication data, and other CSPs shall be directly entered into the cryptographic module (e.g., via a trusted path or directly attached cable). (See Section 4.7.4.)

4.3　Roles, Services, and Authentication

A cryptographic module shall support authorized roles for operators and corresponding services within each role. Multiple roles may be assumed by a single operator. If a cryptographic module supports concurrent operators, then the module shall internally maintain the separation of the roles assumed by each operator and the corresponding services. An operator is not required to assume an authorized role to perform services where cryptographic keys and CSPs are not modified, disclosed, or substituted (e.g., show status, self-tests, or other services that do not affect the security of the module).

Authentication mechanisms may be required within a cryptographic module to authenticate an operator accessing the module, and to verify that the operator is authorized to assume the requested role and perform the services within the role.
