2.  GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ACRONYMS

2.1  Glossary of Terms

The following definitions are tailored for use in this standard:

Approved: FIPS-Approved and/or NIST-recommended.

Approved mode of operation: a mode of the cryptographic module that employs only Approved security functions (not to be confused with a specific mode of an Approved security function, e.g., DES CBC mode).

Approved security function: for this standard, a security function (e.g., cryptographic algorithm, cryptographic key management technique, or authentication technique) that is either

a) specified in an Approved standard,
b) adopted in an Approved standard and specified either in an appendix of the Approved standard or in a document referenced by the Approved standard, or
c) specified in the list of Approved security functions.

Authentication code: a cryptographic checksum based on an Approved security function (also known as a Message Authentication Code).

Automated key transport: the transport of cryptographic keys, usually in encrypted form, using electronic means such as a computer network (e.g., key transport/agreement protocols).

Compromise: the unauthorized disclosure, modification, substitution, or use of sensitive data (including plaintext cryptographic keys and other CSPs).

Confidentiality: the property that sensitive information is not disclosed to unauthorized individuals, entities, or processes.

Control information: information that is entered into a cryptographic module for the purposes of directing the operation of the module.

Critical security parameter (CSP): security-related information (e.g., secret and private cryptographic keys, and authentication data such as passwords and PINs) whose disclosure or modification can compromise the security of a cryptographic module.

Cryptographic boundary: an explicitly defined continuous perimeter that establishes the physical bounds of a cryptographic module and contains all the hardware, software, and/or firmware components of a cryptographic module.

Cryptographic key (key): a parameter used in conjunction with a cryptographic algorithm that determines

• the transformation of plaintext data into ciphertext data,
• the transformation of ciphertext data into plaintext data,
• a digital signature computed from data,
• the verification of a digital signature computed from data,
• an authentication code computed from data, or
• an exchange agreement of a shared secret.

4
